Like the rest of the world, we are
horrified and deeply concerned about the Russian conflict in Ukraine.
We
stand in support of the people in Ukraine and call for peace to return to the
area.
As a result of the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, Acronis is
suspending all operations in Russia.
Acronis
is a global company, founded by a Singaporean citizen in Singapore in 2003 and
incorporated in Switzerland in 2008.
We have over 2,000 employees in 34
countries and 19 offices around the world.
Our technology is built, tested,
stored, distributed and licensed in our
headquarters in Schaffhausen, Switzerland.
We have not sold solutions in
Russia since 2017.
Our company history can be found here.
As a
company, we believe it’s important to protect and help those in need.
The
Acronis Cyber Foundation has released $500,000 in humanitarian assistance to
those in need.
We are also opening employment opportunities in offices around
the world for Ukrainian refugees who had to flee from this conflict and have
been left without a job.
The Acronis Cyber Foundation team is working with
various agencies on additional measures, such as monetary assistance and
providing shelter, food and clothes.
To
our customers and partners, rest assured that the Acronis software you rely on
to protect and manage your business will continue to be available without
disruption as it always has.
Below are three important steps, among many,
we take to ensure your software and data is secure: 
Acronis
will continue to support our employees, customers and partners and join with
all of those around the world who are calling for peace.
As the novel coronavirus/COVID-19 continues to spread, impacting individuals, organizations, and communities across the globe, we want to share how Acronis is responding to the pandemic.
Working from home has become a critical part of containing the virus, but for small to mid-size businesses tackling remote work for the first time, there are security considerations to keep in mind.
With the coronavirus on the verge of being declared a global pandemic and thousands dead in its wake, there are sick attempts by criminals to scam unsuspected victims to profit from the illness.
Travel may be restricted and conferences canceled, but this crisis will eventually pass.
To give us something to look forward to, let’s look at the session tracks for the 2020 Acronis Global Cyber Summit.
© 2023 Acronis International GmbH.
Rheinweg 9, 8200 Schaffhausen, Switzerland.
© All rights reserved.
Your information is used in accordance with our privacy statement.
You receive this email because you are subscribed for a blog newsletter.
